---
title: Auction Cycle
pageHeader: OEV â†’ Overview
outline: deep
---

<PageHeader/>

# Auction Cycle

We already explored how the API3 OEV solution works at a high level and peaked
into details of the OEV Network and OEV Auctioneer. In this section, we're going
to walk through the auction cycle in depth, detailing the steps involved in the
auction process.

## Searching

Before we dive into the auction cycle, let's quickly summarize the work of
searchers. The searcher needs to fund an EoA (Externally Owned Account) and
deposit collateral on its behalf. It needs to monitor the off-chain
[Signed APIs](/oev/overview/target-chain.md#oev-signed-data) and monitor the
dApp's state for profitable opportunities.

For the purposes of this guide, we assume there is a searcher that implemented
all of the above and knows how to capture the OEV once they've won an auction.
If you're looking into OEV searching, refer to the the
[Searchers](/oev/searchers/) details.

## The Auction Process

Assuming there is a dApp with OEV integration and there are active OEV
searchers, the following is a typical auction process.

### Start of the Bidding Phase

Auctions run in two phases. The bidding phase and the award phase. During the
bidding phase, searchers can look for OEV opportunities for the particular dApp
and place their bids.

### Find an OEV Opportunity

Say a searcher identifies a possible OEV opportunity with the data from the
off-chain Signed APIs. The searcher wants to obtain exclusive rights to update
the data feed(s) with this data, before this data is opened to the public.

### Bid Submission

The searcher submits a bid via the OevAuctionHouse contract on the OEV Network.
The auction is identified solely by the bid topic. As part of the bid details,
the searcher specifies the bid amount they are willing to pay in order to obtain
the exclusive update rights. For their bid to be eligible, they need to have
enough collateral locked in the OevAuctionHouse contract at the time of award.

### Start of the Award Phase

The award phase starts immediately after the end of the bidding phase.
Auctioneer determines the auction winner and awards them a signature giving them
the exclusive rights.

Performance is critical here as the longer it takes to award the bid, the less
time the auction winner has to capture the OEV. The phase periods are chosen
with this in mind, allowing both Auctioneer and the winner enough time.

### Finding the Winning Bid

If there are multiple eligible bids, Auctioneer selects the one with the highest
bid amount. More details on how Auctioneer selects the winning bid can be found
in the [Auction resolution](/oev/overview/oev-auctioneer.md#auction-resolution)
section.

### Awarding the Winning Bid

After the winning bid is determined, Auctioneer creates a cryptographic
signature and submits it in on the OEV Network. The signature is to be used on
the target chain when capturing the OEV opportunity by the auction winner.

### Polling for Awarded Bid

Searchers should monitor the OEV Network for the winning bid transaction to make
use of the award as soon as possible.

### Capturing the OEV Opportunity

The searcher can use the winning signature to pay for the OEV bid on the target
chain by making a transaction. They need to pay the bid amount announced in the
bid submission. This payment will be forwarded to the dApp. The signature
ensures that only the auction winner can do so.

After they've made the payment, the contract allows them to perform the data
feed updates with exclusive rights. Note that API3 feeds guarantee very strong
properties via on-chain aggregation and timestamp checks so the searcher is
forced to use valid and up-to-date data.

Finally, the after updating the data feed values, the searcher is able to
capture the OEV opportunity. It is assumed that the searcher does all of these
steps atomically in a single transaction.

### Reporting Fulfillment

After paying for the OEV bid, the searcher needs to report the fulfillment back
to the OEV network. They do so by submitting the transaction hash in which
they've paid for the winning bid.

The searcher is given a sufficiently long period to report the fulfillment. It's
advised to submit the fulfillment only once the transaction on the target chain
has reached enough finality.

### Fulfillment Verification

Once the fulfillment is submitted, Auctioneer verifies it and there are two
possibilities on what can happen:

1. The fulfillment is confirmed - The collateral for this bid is released and
   the protocol fee is charged.
2. The fulfillment is contradicted - The full collateral for this bid is
   slashed.
